[Music]
most of you know many mostly healthy
lately and but today I'm really craving
something fried I've never been to the
England but every time I go to an
English pub and I have the fish and
chips they always taste really good you
know being a southern boy anything fried
is good but I've got some Cod today and
we're gonna try to make some fish and
chips let's see how it goes
okay so we're gonna take our potatoes
now when you do this it's not an exact
measurement thing it's one of these
things you make layers of potatoes and
if you may if you're cooking these go
ahead and cook something up extra and
you can save them once they're done you
just throw them the refrigerator they're
fine for a day or two don't worry about
it you're not gonna spoil so anyway this
makes a perfectly cooked potato they're
not soft enough for mashed potatoes they
still have a little bite tool and if you
follow this method I'm sure you'll be
happy with it so and then you can use
these potatoes for you can do baked
potatoes with them you can fry them
whatever so anyway you're gonna need a
bunch of salt because what you're really
salting is the water it's not an
accurate thing and then they when
they're done they still will need just a
little bit of salt so just get some
almost salty enough what we're gonna do
we're gonna put water in here and we're
gonna cover them at least 1 inch I'm
gonna go about an inch and a half two
inches on these these are a little bit
bigger if use and they're real small
potatoes you can go an inch three
quarters of an inch something like that
but what's gonna happen is whenever
these are done boiling the mat the
thermal mass is left from in the water
and the potato I think will finish the
cooking process now you do have to start
this ahead of time
because when we turn off the heat we're
gonna let be set for two hours
yes two hours gonna take time to get
them to boil so you're looking at about
two and a half hours to get these
potatoes cooked anyway I'm gonna put
them on stove now all right so I got
them sitting on the stove I'm gonna take
and put my burner on high and then we're
gonna bring this to a boil
all right see what we got going on here
it's not a rolling boil but it's a real
good simmer and I do have an electric
stove so that burner is gonna stay hot
for a while so I'm gonna do don't put
this lid back on here as we want it to
hold the heat turn the burner off and
then we'll come back in about two hours
okay so here it is two hours later we're
a little more than two hours because
it's not exactly a two-hour thing we're
gonna pour this water off mix in a
little cold water for the same
that we've got all the water out of
there we're just gonna let these things
sit and cool down a little bit so I can
handle them later so let's start on our
batter I'm going to use one teaspoon of
baking powder well I have 1 cup of
self-rising flour in here we'll put 1
teaspoon baking powder because I want to
make sure that this rises up and then
I'm going to put half a teaspoon of salt
in here and you can put more salt or
less often how you like it but I'm
keeping this kind of neutral we're gonna
do after we mix this up a little bit
we're gonna take and we're gonna put
this in the refrigerator and let it get
nice and cold that's gonna take about
10-15 minutes okay so we have cold flour
cold bowl cold beer and I've got 1 cup
of beer measured out here and it's gonna
take a little more than that but it's 1
cup is a good starting point so
everything's cold and then that's a
freshly open beer it'll foam up so we're
gonna give us a mix now depending upon
your flour you may need to add more beer
or you may not like this is looking
pretty good
all right now I'm gonna put this in the
refrigerator well you know what quite
mix there that's not as thick as I want
last time I did this put a different
flower I had to actually go to one one
cup of flour and a one in the quarter
cup of beer
I'll put it a little bit of flour in
there mix that there we go that's the
thickness I'm looking for right there
now we're gonna put this back in the
refrigerator for about five minutes okay
so now let's make our chips if you will
now you got an option to peel these if
you want to I'm not gonna do that today
see that that's cooked you could eat
that just like it is we're gonna take
cut these in the big time on them in big
pieces
now if you wanted to peel these probably
the easiest way to do it would be to
take a spoon and peel them okay so my
oil is coming up the temperature that's
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna start
dropping our potatoes in there and we'll
start up putting some color on these
things now you want to handle these
pretty careful because they're fully
cooked and they'll just break apart if
you're not careful a little
okay so my oils coming up the
temperature that's what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna start dropping our potatoes in
there and we'll start up putting some
color on these things now you want to
handle these pretty careful because
they're fully cooked and they'll just
break apart if you're not careful with
them
and then whenever they're done do the
color that you want just take them out
put them on some paper towels
it sprinkle a little salt on them right
right then as soon as they come out of
the oil toss them around in that salt a
little bit and then continue cooking
your next batch so when you finish
cooking your chips take your fish
be careful careful with it handle it
gently dip it in your batter
I remember everything's cold we're going
to ease this into the oil
all right so now we've cooked our fish
on all sides make sure we got some nice
color all the way around
here's up the batter really good you can
these little crunchy bits in here we're
going to turn the heat off we're going
to take our fish out
there we go I'll plate this up and serve
okay
not being an Englishman never been in
England I wonder how it did oh I know
we're supposed to have a malt vinegar on
this delicious track plane hmm potatoes
are really good now that this is hot
you know pork
how does that look
mm-hmm yeah